It's worth it to spend more time and money up
front to realize greater savings over the long-term.
Optimization is one of the most valuable skills a cloud architect can possess,
because it has an immediate impact on the bottom line.
To begin an optimization effort,you use monitoring to establish your baselines.
From there, you can use your peak usage periods and develop
an auto-scaling protocol based on those peak usage and request times.
Another cost and usage optimization step you should consider,
comes from our previous discussion on EC2 costs.
You should use spot instances whenever possible and definitely in
your development environments to reduce costs in
a way that will greatly affect your monthly invoice.
You can use AWS tools to manage your spot instances for maximum productivity.
Using private IP addresses to transfer data for free,
within the same availability zone will also provide a measurable cost-savings.
Finally, if your organization has multiple AWS accounts,
you can easily save by using consolidated billing.
When you combine the billing for all of your AWS accounts,
you may find that the volume of business you're doing with AWS qualifies you for
discounts that you wouldn't otherwise receive
if you were paying the bill for each account separately.
How can we optimize our solutions,
such that we get the most performance for our money?
Well, it takes time, skill,
and making small changes over time,
and don't underestimate the role of monitoring.
What time and experience?
It is easy to detect areas where optimization is required,
and it will become second nature,
especially after you've seen how running services affect your monthly bill.
We're going to cover how to hit the target of
lowest cost and best performance using auto-scaling,
or adding and reducing servers automatically based on time, usage and requests.
First, it's important to understand how
your application performs to select the best instance.
From there, we can build an auto-scaling group to
provide optimal service levels for your workloads at all times.
Every hour, the AWS billing system looks at
all EC2 instances that have been running in a particular AWS account.
It then compares them with any reserved instances that have been purchased.
It compares the following attributes;
instance type, operating system, and availability zone.
For each EC2 instance that matches a reserved instance,
there would be no charge,
because the cost is already been paid
as part of the reserved instance purchase agreement.
The reserved instance applies regardless of
whether the instance was launched through auto-scaling or not.
Because don't forget, when you reserved instances,
you agree to the one or three year reservation payment.
Therefore, if you have purchased one reserved instance and
your auto-scaling group launches instances that match the reserve instance type,
then one of the instances in your auto-scaling group will be from
your prepaid allocation of reserved instances each hour.
If you're auto-scaling group has a minimum of one and a maximum of four instances,
then there will always be at least one EC2 instance running.
So you would always receive the benefit of the reserved instance.
That right there makes it worth it to reserve at least one instance.
Any instance above one will be charged the on-demand price if that's all you have.
So it is recommended that you use
reserved instances for any instance that we'll be running continuously.
Combined what we learned about reserved and spot instances to
the mix with scaling and now our costs are much lower.
Make sure you have selected the right reserved
instance mix and that you're scaling follows the rules.
You can use spot instances for auto-scaling,
but is complicated and may not be worth it to risk applications availability.